hello my name is Steven and today I'm
going to talk about momenta the film
starts with the Polaroid photograph of a
dead man as the sequence plays backwards
the photo reverts to its undeveloped
state entering the camera before the man
is shot in the head the film then
continues alternating between black and
white and color sequences the black and
white sequences begin with Leonard
Shelby an insurance investigator in a
motel room speaking to an unseen and
unknown caller Leonard has anterograde
amnesia and is unable to store recent
memories the result of an attack by two
men leonard explains that he killed the
attacker who raped and strangled his
wife but a second clubbed him and
escaped the police did not accept that
there was a second attacker but Leonard
believes the attackers name is John or
James with a last name starting with G
so Leonard conducts his own
investigation using a convoluted system
of notes polaroid photos and tattoos
from his occupation in the insurance
industry
Leonard recalls a fellow anterograde
amnesia AK Samy janki's Sammis diabetic
wife who wasn't sure if his condition
was genuine repeatedly requested Sammy's
assistance with her insulin shots she
hoped he would remember having already
given her an injection and would stop
himself from giving her another before
she died of an overdose however Sammy
continues to administer the injections
and his wife falls into a fatal coma the
color sequences are shown reverse
chronologically in the story's
chronology Leonard's self-directed Lea
gets a tattoo of John Jesus ins plait
finding a note in his clothes he meets
Natalie a bartender who resents Leonard
because he wears the clothes and drives
the car of her boyfriend Jimmy Grant's
after understanding Leonard's condition
she uses it to get Leonard to drive a
man named God out of town and office to
run the license plate as a favor
meanwhile Leonard meets with a contact
Teddy who helps with Dodds but warns
about Natalie however a photograph
causes Leonard not to trust teddy
Natalie provides Leonard with the
driver's license for a John Edward
gamble Teddy's full name confirming
Leonard's information on John G and his
warnings Leonard drives Teddy to Anna
band
building leading to the opening where he
shoots him in the final black-and-white
sequence prompted by the caller Leonard
meets with teddy an undercover officer
who has found Leonard's janji Jimmy and
directs Leonard to the abandoned
building
when Jimmy arrives Leonard strangles him
faily and takes a Polaroid photo of the
body as the photo develops the
black-and-white transitions to the final
color sequence Leonard swaps clothes
with Jimmy hearing him whisper Sammy as
Leonard has only told Sammy's story to
those he has met he suddenly doubts
Jimmy's role teddy arrives and asserts
that Jimmy was janji but when Leonard is
undeterred Teddy reveals that he helped
him kill the real attacker a year ago
and he has been using Leonard ever since
Teddy points out that since the name
John G is common Leonard will cyclically
forget and begin again and that even
Teddy himself has a John Jeep name
further Teddy claims that Sammy's story
his Leonard's own story a memory Leonard
has repressed to escape guilt
referencing an earlier black-and-white
scene where Sammy is replaced by Leonard
for a split second as he sits in the
asylum after hearing Teddy confess all
of this Leonard burns the photograph of
dead Jimmy and monologues that he is
willing to lie to himself in order to
get justice against anyone who has
wronged him he therefore targets Teddy
by ordering a tattoo of Teddy's license
plate number and writing a note to
himself that Teddy is not to be trusted
so that he will mistake Teddy for John G
and kill him Leonard drives off in
Jimmy's car confident that despite this
life he will retain enough awareness of
the world to know that his actions have
consequences thank you all for watching
don't forget to subscribe and hit the
bell notification for more of these
videos